# random Module

Another useful module in Python is the **_random_** module. This module providesan entity with the same name - _random_. This function returns a float number between 0.0 and 1.0

```python
import random

print(random.random())
```
>Output:
```
0.5371669221553753
```
Although it looks like the numbers they get returned are totally random, a deterministic computer cannot produce an actual random number in any way.
* Numbers generated by algorithms whose sequence cannot be predicted are called _psuedo-random numbers_. The random module generates _psuedo-random numbers_.

* The random function actually works by taking a random value called the _seed_, treating it like an input value, and it then calculates a random number based on that value and produces a new seed value. 
* The initialization of the seed value is done by Python, as we import the module. If you want to use your own seed value, you can use the seed function provided by the random module.
```python
import random

for i in range(5):
    random.seed()
    prrint(random.random())
```
* If you use _seed_ without a value, it sets the seed with the current system time
```
0.7006636694280671
0.6083691041847227
0.47403441056274587
0.5250037930713529
0.4114639716845908
```
* However, when we set the seed with an integer value, it keeps returning the same values, whenever we run this program.
```python
import random

for i in range(5):
    random.seed(10)
    print(random.random())
```
> Output:
```
0.376962302390386
0.376962302390386
0.376962302390386
0.376962302390386
0.376962302390386
```
* This happens since the _seed_ is always set with the same value. So, the sequence of the generated values always look the same.

## randint() and randrange()

If we don't want floating point numbers, like the _random_ function provides,  we can make use of the _randrange_ and _randint_ functions.

* With the **randint** function we can return an integer between the left and the right value with the right value being included.
```python
import random

print(random.randint(10, 20))
```
In this case, the random integer will be generated between 10 and 20, including 20. So the random integer can be any integer from 10-20.

* The **randrange** function returns a random integer, within the range we specify.
* It actually returns a value just like if we could return a random integer from the values generated using the `range()` function, we saw while learning for-loop.
    * Like the `range()`, we also can use step values here.

```python
import random

print(random.randrange(50, 100))
print(random.randrange(100))
print(random.randrange(0, 100, 5))
```

## choice() and sample()

Two other useful entities provided by the random module are choice and sample.

* The **choice** function returns a random element from the list that we provide.

```python
import random

students = ["Asif", "Priyanka", "Ashwanth", "Shrikanth", "Sheryl"]
print(random.choice(students))
```
* The sample function returns a list of random items from within a list that we provide.
    * The second argument takes the length of the list you want, with random elements.

```python
import random

students = ["Asif", "Priyanka", "Ashwanth", "Shrikanth", "Sheryl"]
print(random.sample(students, 2))
```
> Output:
```
['Sheryl', 'Shrikanth']
```